so plus minecraft theory had me doing a
lot of tree punching and have no doubt
that me teaching you how to punch down a
tree like you do in Minecraft inspired
tens of thousands of you loyal theorists
out there to try it for yourself
mowing down saplings faster than an
overeager lumberjack why today I want to
start the episode by make some men's
theorists it's time to stop the punching
and start the planting my friend Jimmy
yep may have heard of him he runs a
channel called mr. beast is a youtuber
that's looking to make a difference yes
they know that mr. beast alongside
another friend of mine the incredibly
smart mark Rober are currently working
to raise twenty million dollars in order
to plant 20 million trees by 2020 it's a
very numerically sound thing anyway it's
in honor of Jimmy hitting 20 million
subscribers which you know good for him
not jealous of that or anything but
anyway I'll let Jimmy and Mark explain
for themselves we went through a bunch
of different options on how to pull this
off and eventually settled with working
with the Arbor Day Foundation they're
the largest most well-respected
nonprofit for planting trees and we got
them to agree that for every $1 we raise
they would plant one tree that literally
means if someone donates $3 three more
trees will exist in the world than if
they didn't it's pretty incredible right
so if you would like to be a part of
this massive movement to make the world
just a little bit greener a donation
link to the fund is in the top line of
the description a hundred percent of
your donation goes directly to the Arbor
Day fund and every dollar is one more
tree in the ground if everyone who
watches this video gives a dollar well I
don't know how many people will watch
this video but you know it's not a hard
math problem to solve it is literally
multiplying by one so I trust you to be
able to do the math in your head anyway
with that being said and us making a man
for all the trees that we punch down
it's time to talk
zombie pigs
hello Internet welcome to game theory
we're gotta be honest I'm still icing my
knuckles after last week today we're
continuing our deep dive exploration
into the lost lore of Minecraft by
looking at what is in my opinion the
strangest part of the universe the
zombie pigmen and for me to call him out
as the strangest is saying a lot
considering this is also a world full of
living snowmen and laser shooting
pufferfish maybe it wouldn't be so
strange if this was a mob that was only
a bipedal Pig creature that lived in a
double toothpicks but no it has to be a
zombified bipedal Pig living in a double
toothpicks that also carries around a
butter sword for reasons and also also
has no non zombified versions of itself
left anywhere on the planet now that is
a weird collection of attributes and if
we're being 100% honest it's probably
because their origins are pretty bizarre
tall human-like pigs have been kicking
around as an unused idea in Minecraft
since the very beginning a Minecraft
user first came up with the idea for
Pigman way back in 2010 and the game's
creator notch almost used them as the
game's villagers a year later it didn't
happen and in 2012 not revealed in the
documentary minecraft the story of
mojang that the games signature creature
the creeper was also born out of
awkwardly tall pig monsters well I mean
the creepers were a mistake I don't have
any modeling programs to do the models
and I accidentally made an toll instead
of log so it was like a total thing with
four little feet and that's became the
creeper what's supposed to be a pig so
if I were to guess the zombie pigmen
exists and are connected to creepers
villagers and normal pigs purely because
of a sequence of happy accidents coding
errors and scrapped ideas that got
eventually made into cannon but that's
the real story for why zombie pigman are
probably in this game what we are
interested in is the fictional story
how can these creatures possibly fit
into the shockingly deep and
surprisingly cohesive lore of Minecraft
that we've been building over the last
couple of episodes how do you fit undead
pigs from eg double hockey sticks into a
tale about an ancient civilization of
long-lost builders gotta be honest this
one started as a I have no idea how
we're gonna explain this but by the end
of my research
pretty solid case here friends to start
piecing together the lore of the zombie
pigmen we first have to look at their
in-game behavior for clues now obviously
these creatures are most commonly
associated with nether but they can on
very rare occasions appear in the
overworld when lightning strikes within
four blocks of a pig a zombie pigman
will suddenly spawn that immediately
tells us that these two creatures are in
some way connected that the Pigman at
least at one point in their history were
related to normal everyday pigs we also
know that the Pigman share some form of
psychic link no that might seem absurd
to say but their hostile behavior
patterns confirm it attack one zombie
pigman and somehow all the others within
a massive radius will become aggressive
and converge on Steve and it's not
because they're hearing their attacks
friend since the sounds they make are
relatively quiet and everyone is still
aggressive even if that attack happens
in a completely sealed off closed box
that should deaden the sound to any
outside listeners the immediacy and
aggression of their attack can only mean
that they're linked in some way and
lastly it's also important to note that
they don't begin as hostile they only
turn hostile when they've been attacked
so under normal circumstances they
technically have nothing against Steve
it's only one Steve becomes aggressive
that they suddenly have a reason to
defend themselves this admittedly gives
us a lot to work with but it's still
just a bunch of loose threads without
something to tie it all together any
theory that I would craft to try and
explain it all would be missing that
linchpin of evidence that anchors the
narrative but then came this year's mine
come the Mojang team's annual
interactive livestream all about the
Minecraft franchise complete with
discussions about upcoming features big
world premiere announcements and lots of
other stuff this is gonna look weird but
you can't hit hello gotta juice that
sweet sweet watch time and this year
between gooey hands and whatever this
was
we received a ton of new information
about what changes are rolling out into
the Minecraft world over the next couple
of months these honey blocks target
blocks but of all the new content it was
the changes coming in minecraft one
point
the nether update that really caught my
attention specifically the new pig Lin
civilization zombie pigman are no more
pig Lin's
and zombie pig Lin's are here to stay
pig Lin is actually what we called the
pig man now the pig Ling is almost like
a new civilization you know that we add
to the nether but there was one detail
about this mob in particular that caught
my attention they are actually hostile
towards the player they also don't like
wither skeletons they don't like wither
skeletons from writing all of these
episodes I gotta say that so much of
piecing together this game's story
relies on picking apart spawn conditions
and hostile behavioral patterns like in
any good story those sorts of details
are telling you the relationships
between our main characters as it were
and so hearing Jeb call out the
hostility towards one particular mob
really stood out to me especially since
as we established during our episode on
the wither the wither skeletons are most
likely the remains of the ancient
builder there are plenty of reasons as
to why but I'm not gonna rehash them
here you've just watched that video if
you're interested but for the pig Lin's
to act violently towards wither
skeletons aka the ancient builders that
was the last detail that I needed
there's hostility between these two
groups something happened long ago
between these two civilizations and it
hasn't been forgotten even long after
our old civilizations have largely died
off so let's start putting all these
pieces together shall we we know that
the ancient builders started in the
overworld and at some point they created
a nether portal and started to explore
down there we know this based on the
chests and the fortresses that exist
down in the nether that could really
have only been built by them now here is
where the piglet is coming at some point
the builders brought their pigs with
them into this hostile environment again
we know this based on that lightning
strike evidence pigs and zombie pig
lines are connected and yet there are no
pigs in the nether meaning that they
must get
started in the overworld now there's two
possible reasons for the builders to do
this the first one is simple food the
nether up until the announcement of the
new piglet beasts mob also coming with
update 1.6 has it had a reliable source
for food but it's also the food sourcing
that are actually so when you get your
food you can't just have like it pretty
the farm instead you need to find this
scary aggressive pickling beast and get
the food from there as such any
explorers looking to make a long journey
to explore and forage in the area would
need to bring a dedicated food source
like say their stable of pigs bring them
down to the nether leave them there and
boom you suddenly have pig like
creatures in a place where they have no
business being option two for why the
pigs would be down there is honestly a
bit darker it could very well explain
the hostility that exists between these
two groups consider for a second if you
had opened a portal to somewhere some
other dimension you don't really know
are you just gonna hop through of course
you're not you're gonna test it most
likely you're gonna test it on some sort
of animal and believe it or not but pigs
are often the ones being used as human
standings for large-scale scientific
experiments because of their similar
organ size and decay rates so to see
whether things on the other side of that
portal or safe maybe the ancient
builders dropped their pigs on through
sacrificing a few of them in the name of
science either way pigs are brought to
the nether and I don't know about you
but that would definitely give me a
reason to hold a grudge against the
people who brought me there be they
human or their undead wither skeleton
forms
it also helps explain the wishy-washy
aggressive feelings they have toward
Steve zombie pigmen aren't aggressive
towards Steve because he's not the one
who brought them there on the other hand
pig Lin's are now aggressive towards
Steve because hey he's a descendant of
that ancient race of builders so that
explains how a pig like species would
get into this hostile supernatural
environment and why they might be mad at
the wither skeletons but obviously it's
skimming over a few teeny tiny details
that might also need to be explained
like how they became locking sword
wielding psychic warrior zombies that's
a pretty big logical leap to make their
rights
yeah but believe it or not it's one that
can be completely explained via
netherwart remember what I said about
the nether not having much food well
that's gonna be true for the animals
down here too I mean really what would a
pig eat down there crops require water
it's simply not possible to place water
down in the nether as such the only
thing that they're gonna be able to eat
down there is nether wart but if that
were truly what the builders were
feeding their primary food source you
would expect them to harvest it right
swell would you know it but if you look
at the essential elements of another
fortress those places that were
constructed by the ancient builders as
their home away from home as they
explore the hostile underworld
you see bridges a lava well room and
surprisingly nether wart Gardens Gardens
placed there to harvest the only crop
that could be grown in such a hostile
landscape so we know that the builders
were indeed harvesting the stuff but
then why is nether warts so important
here well we also know that the
Minecraft universe is one where you
quite literally are what you eat in our
Enderman video I linked the ancient
builders being forced to eat the ends
native crop of Korus fruit with them
slowly obtaining the plants
teleportation abilities and well yes
that was admittedly just speculation we
don't even have to go into the realm of
Furies to prove this one ladies and
gentlemen I present to you the mushroom
a cow mushroom hybrid that only spawns
in mushroom field biomes aka
places where cows are consuming a diet
primarily filled with mushrooms their
milk is mushroom stew their bodies are
covered with the stuff but we know at
their core they began as regular cows
since when you shear them clean it drops
its mushrooms and transforms back into a
normal bovine again so if pigs in the
nether were indeed subsisting off a diet
entirely made of nether wart there's a
likelihood we could see some of that
plants traits carry over into this
animal now here's the thing about nether
wart even though I just called it a
plant it looks and acts very much like a
fungus nether
work grows through four stages with the
middle two stages looking nearly
identical it's a process that very
closely resembles the life cycle of a
typical mushroom netherwart
is known as nether stalk in the code
just like many fungi are composed of the
fruit body on top and the stalk
underneath it doesn't need sunlight to
grow and instead thrives in the warm
dark environment of the nether just like
a real-world fungus in fact many of the
Minecraft wiki's equate nether wart to
the real-world puffball fungus which
although different in color does indeed
match in terms of design and
reproductive behavior and all of this
matters because a diet of nether wart
would explain how the zombie pigmen all
share a psychic connection you see when
we think of a fungus we immediately
think of the mushroom that's on top but
in reality most of a fungus body is made
up of super thin threads known as
mycelium and the crazy thing is that
these threads can go for dozens upon
dozens of feet connecting up with a
bunch of other plants and fungi so much
so that researchers are now calling this
an underground Internet of sorts a
literal fungal Network that sharing
information across plants root to root
extending for miles a wood wide web if
you will fungus expert hall statements
calls it Earth's natural Internet in a
2008 TED talk and that fungal connection
could very easily carry over into our
pigs just like we see with mushrooms
eating that nether wart fungus could
slowly transform our overworld pigs into
an interconnected network of big fungus
hybrids and that's not all
fungal networks also boost their host
plants immune systems simply plugging
into the mycelial Network makes plants
more resistant to diseases now look at
the nether wart it's the essential
ingredient for awkward potions the base
for over 90% of the game's magical
abilities you know what else is a key
ingredient in potions glowstone dust
which is also found down in the nether
potions mind you that bestow the drinker
all sorts of magical properties from
greater defenses to create our swiftness
to most importantly fire resistance fire
resistance just like we see with the
zombi piglets were immune to fire and
lava damage in fact this theory may even
explain why we only see zombified
versions of the Pigman and not normal
style Pigman the new Pigman race
excluded obviously the ancient race of
builders came to the nether a long time
ago and when their society collapsed so
did the coming and going from the
overworld as such no new pigs were being
brought into the nether meaning that
everyone we see down here has been down
there for centuries at least that my
friends is some old rancid pork so how
could a pig survive for that long again
the nether warts magical properties one
of its key uses is making potions of
healing it could be that the Pigman
literally cannot die from natural causes
or just like the wither skeletons won't
walk back to life with the strange soul
saving properties that exist in the
nether heck this theory may even explain
why they only carry gold swords look at
the types of loot that spawn inside the
nether fortress chests the ones
containing supplies brought into the
nether by the ancient builders the only
weapons that we ever see spawn in those
chests are golden swords that's it
that's what they brought in and stored
in those chests and since these are pigs
at heart with no crafting ability all
the items that you find in there like
iron ingots and diamonds are completely
useless to them the only thing that they
can use to defend themselves is just
what they found laying around in their
natural environment left behind by their
former masters the ancient abandoned
golden swords so just look at all the
questions this theory answers it
explains how pigs got into the nether
why they'd be hostile to wither
skeletons and have complicated feelings
towards us
as a descendant of the builders it
explains why we see nether wart
purposely grown in the nether fortresses
and how a diet of nether wart could
produce a psychic link of sorts between
all the pigment in the region that
nether wart combined with the local
glowstone because let's face it pigs
elite or at least try anything could
also explain their fire resistance
there's zombification and we even have
ourselves an answer as to why they would
all have golden butter swords and only
golden
swords honestly the only question I can
answer about this mob is why they stand
on two legs not a hundred percent sure
could be evolution Higgs learning to
walk upright to use their hands to
defend themselves in the violent nether
while also wanting fewer body parts
touching the hot netherrack possible but
I do think that we're onto something
with this theory something that I
suspect Mojang might just want to be
cluing us in on because if we go back to
more of that mind confluence as they
reveal the new biomes for the nether one
they spend a good amount of time on is
the nether wart the forest and what do
they explicitly show us wandering around
and they're the only mob mind you that
they show us in this preview a zombie
pigmen wandering through the woods and
home amongst the food and landscape that
helped to make him what he is he's a pig
ripped from his comfortable life in the
overworld and brought down into the
depths of hack to be used for the
slaughter of the ancient people but
through random chance and a whole lot of
fungus becoming the start to a rival
civilization bound for greatness and
then turning into zombies but hey that's
just a theory Oh
game theory thanks for watching just a
reminder to wave your diamond pickaxe
over that subscribe button we got more
minecraft theories on the way next time
hopefully about the villagers and illah
Jers though underwater fortresses are
really interesting to me right now I'll
see you all for something different next
week